## Content

Content can be stored as an _instance_ of any number of classes. This is called the content's _type_, and it identifies the certain properties that it has. You typically create a class for a collection of resources that share common properties that you want to describe. For instance there would be types for a blog post, a song, or a revenue report.

To tag content or to organize it into categories, for instance to classify a song as "Rock", "Country", or "Trance", use [Taxonomies](#user.taxonomy).

### Retreiving Content

Magnode is a framework that formats RDF resources, which are identified by URIs. When dereferenced (that is, accessed), magnode uses a series of _transforms_ to convert the RDF resource of whatever type it is, into a content type requested by the browser (usually HTML). In some cases you may want Magnode to format a resource that it is not the server for, for instance, the `rdfs:Class` resource which has a uri of `http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#Class`. If the URI were to be dereferenced, it would make an HTTP GET request to `www.w3.org` for the resource `/2000/01/rdf-schema`. If you want to ask `example.com` how it would format the resource, you can specify the shortened URL after the domain name part of the URI like so: `http://example.com/rdfs:Class`. URIs with hashes can be formatted in the same manner.

Which transforms are applied can be controlled with the `?apply=` paramater, which can be used any number of times, each with a different value that specifies the transform to apply to the requested resource.

### How resources are applied

Magnode keeps a list of objects with their content types, and uses transforms to create new objects with new content types. It keeps applying transforms until the target content type is generated.

<dl>
<dt>resource</dt> <dd><code>http://magnode.org/2011/05/25/welcome-to-magnode</code></dd> <dd>(Provided)</dd>
<dt>database</dt> <dd><i>Object</i></dd> <dd>(Provided)</dd>
<dt>type:Blogpost</dt> <dd><code>http://magnode.org/2011/05/25/welcome-to-magnode</code></dd> <dd>(Implied from <i>resource</i>)</dd>
<dt>type:DocumentHTML_Body</dt> <dd><code>&lt;p&gt;Thank you for flying Magnode!&lt;/p&gt;&lt;div class=&quot;author&quot;&gt;Authored by Acubed on 2011-05-25 13:42&lt;/div&gt;</code></dd> <dd>(Generated by <code>transform:DocumentHTML_Body_typeBlogpost</code> from <i>type:Blogpost</i> and <i>database</i>)</dd>
</dl>


### Editing Content

Passing the `?edit` parameter will change the transforms allowed to be applied from readonly transforms to editable-form transforms (transforms that can process both types, like HTTP, are members of both types). This will cause an editable form to be displayed.

### Creating Content

The `?new` parameter on a URL will cause Magnode to format an empty resource of a type of the given URL. For instance, requesting `http://example.com/rdfs:Class?new` will cause Magnode to create a blank, new resource, and format it as a rdfs:Class.
