## An Idea
Magnode adopted RDF as the data model, because it allows websites to make globally applicable statements about resources, and can use such statements from other websites without any conversion in the information like formatting or ID. But the biggest problem with selecting RDF is not a problem with RDF itself, but that there are inadequate tools that allow intuitive, accessible access to it the same way you would work with native variables. Additionally, it seemed like there was no easy way to generate HTML or other structured data from RDF the same way one can use an XSLT stylesheet to generate webpages from a database query result or XML file. Magnode is thus the remedy for this, and a framework had to be created so that RDF data could successfully be formatted.

When you start working with data, you realize there's a whole lot of applications and logic it has to follow. One may want to stream real-time updates to the web browser, for instance. PHP does not natively support this, long-polling would run threaded servers out of memory, be it Apache or a CGI process pool. Additionally there is lots of logic you may want to embed in the data. PHP is designed as a template language, not for scripting callbacks. Javascript was the perfect solution, and Node.js offered a great platform to handle events and I/O. As a bonus, you're using the same scripting language that web browsers do, allowing you to generate things like plots or do DOM manipulations with existing Javascript libraries designed for the client side.

### Disruptive is: Easy. Intuitive. It Just Works!
The goal is to make a software program that is self-documenting, intuitive, and works with sensible, but configurable, defaults.
